# Crowdfunding_ETL
Group Members: 
* Madison Mihle 
* Kat Hardy 
* Lauralee Callahan 

## Introduction

In this project, we built an ETL pipeline using Python, Pandas, and either Python dictionary methods or regular expressions to extract and transform the data. 

## Challenge 
### Part 1: Create the Category and Subcategory DataFrames
Data was extracted and transformed from the _crowdfunding.xlsx_ to create a category Dataframe with the folowing columns: "category_id" and "category". Next, this was exported as the _category.csv_ and saved. Still using the _crowdfunding.xlsx_ data, a subcategory DataFrame was created with the columns: "subcategory_id" and "subcategory". This was also saved as _subcategory.csv_

### Part 2: Create the Campaign DataFrame
Next, data from the _crowdfunding.xlsx_ to create a campaign DataFrame that has the following columns: 
* "cf_id"
* "contact_id"
* "company_name" 
* "blurb" 
* "goal"
* "pledged" 
* "outcome" 
* "backers_count"
* "country" 
* "currency"
* "launched_at" 
* "deadline" 
* "category_id" 
* "subcategory_id"

This was then exported into the _campaign.csv_ file and saved. 

### Part 3: Create the Contacts DataFrame
Next, using option 1 (Python dictionary method) we extracted and transformed the data from _contacts.xlsx_ data. This was imported into a DataFrame, then iterated by converting each row to a dictionary. The dictionary values were extracted from the keys busing a Python list comprehension. Each values from the row were inserted into a new list. A new DataFrame was created from the extracted data. Columns were then split into the appropraite titles. This data was then cleaned and exported as _contacts.csv_ file. 

### Part 4: Create the Crowdfunding Database 
After inspecting the four CSV files, sketch an ERD of the tables. Using the information from the ERD to create a table schema for each CSV file, making sure to add specific data types, primary keys, foreign keys, and other constraints. 

The ERD of the crowdfunding schema is below: 

[]() 

## Methods Used
* CSV and Excel file conversion 
* ERD table schema 
* Pandas 
* Python 
* Foreign Keys, Primary Keys, and other constraints 
* Loading and transforming data 
* Postgres SQL 

## Software Used 
* Visual Code Studio 
* PgAdmin 

## References 
Data for this dataset was generated by _edX Boot Camps LLC_, and is intended for educational purposes only.